WhatToKnow-FirstSemester.md, before:

# What is This:
This gives some stuff that I wish I knew before starting this program.  

# Pre-Course Delusions
 - I will have time on the weekends for friends/family/pets.  I went into this program thinking that I could manage the asynchronous material, homework and reading on weeknights when I wasn't in class.  Yes, you will need to dedicate some hours on non-class nights but you will also need to block time on weekends.  Most of the homework assignments in statistics are due in 72 hours.  In addition, extra tutoring and other sessions are frequently held on Saturdays or Sundays.
 - I can rely on course recordings to review information that I missed in class.  Recordings are available but fast-forwarding or pausing and restarting is cumbersome.  Playback works best without pausing or jumping around so plan to rewatch the whole session if you need to touch up on a topic addressed in class.  Alternatively, you can try to record courses on your own.  This takes some practice since the audio is not integrated with the web session.
 - The statistics course I took in undergrad is enough of an intro for me.  I should be fine.  NO!  The stats class you took 10 years ago is not enough.  Go through the points listed below to get more experience.
 - I work with databases all the time, that class should be easy.  NO! Having real-life experience with databases is sometimes a detriment when discussing theories in this class.  But yes, between the two, this course is much easier.

# Statistics
Statistics is the "hard" course unless you come from a background in it. It will take some time to learn it, so the more you can do
to get comfortable with it ahead of time, the better.  That is, if you're familar with terminology, notation and concepts,
even if you're not a master of them, it will make it easier.

For the first month, I'd estimate I did at least 20 hours a week on this class.  Knowing some of the concepts ahead of time would have cut down on it quite a bit.

Here's some suggestions to get going faster
- Khan Academy has a whole series of videos on probability, statistics.  
    * Go through them to get comfortable with terms like sigma, alpha, confidence, etc.
    * Go through the inferential statistics series multiple times. There are a lot of concepts in this that will be 
      repeated in class, and it will go into much more depth.
    * I'd guess spending 20-30 hours going though this stuff ahead of time will pay off a lot. 
- Professor Leonard youtube videos.  This professor videoed an entire semester of introduction to statistics.
<<<<<<< HEAD
  His videos are good if you need an introduction or refresher.  However, it's a full semester, so it takes a lot of time. 
- There are other youtube videos on doing statistics. Find someone you like, and watch their stuff.
- http://onlinestatbook.com/ is worth going through.


### SAS
You'll want to install a local copy of SAS.  The first two courses in statistics use this, and R comees later.
The official documents say it takes 4-6 hours.  In reality, it took a lot longer.  (12ish hours.)  The better network connection you have, the faster it will go.  Use a hardwire, not wireless if possible.

A number of people reported using SAS University edition, and liking it a lot better. The install is a lot smaller, only about a 1/2 hours.

People on Mac's have been having issues and have to use the citrix version. I don't know what their work-around have been besides installing on a virtual machine.

=======
  His videos are good if you need an introduction or refresher
- If you prefer to sit down with a text book and read it from cover to cover, try http://onlinestatbook.com/.  This helped me immensely with getting some basic concepts down.
  
>>>>>>> refs/remotes/origin/pr/1

# Databases and Programming
- Find an intro to Python course online or work through some tutorials on how to do things like:
    * reading input
    * dictionaries and lists
    * connecting to a database
- In class, you can use version 2.7 or 3. Most the stuff we looked at was version 2.7.


# Other Stuff
- The biggest help for me this quarter has been connecting with classmates and collaborating on work.  It's hard, but don't be shy. Reach out to others in your classes, and start talking to them.
- We created a Google Hangout that has an on-going discussion about upcoming assignments (and some social stuff too). Its extremely helpful, if nothing else just to have everyone else to ask "when's this due again?".
<<<<<<< HEAD
- Be part of the community and discussions.
- Try to connect with people in different sections. Some weeks, one section may get further in a lecture than other weeks, so it'd good to have someone else to compare to that has a slightly different perspective.
- SMU uses Office365 for Business, so you'll get a OneDrive folder (as well as licenses for the Office suite). This, dropbox, googledrive...will be helpful to share with everyone.
=======
- Be part of the community and discussions.  Make yourself available to be contacted outside of class.  Stay connected!
- Get your equipment and materials ready BEFORE the first class.  Go ahead and upgrade that laptop now.  Install SAS per the instructions provided.  Get that extra monitor you were thinking about.  Get your books at least 2 weeks before the first session.  You will have assignments and async material that are due PRIOR to your first stats class.
- Go to 2ds and poke around.  It's worth it to be familiar with the delivery mechanism that you will be using.  Practice using the mobile version - there are differences.

>>>>>>> refs/remotes/origin/pr/1

Commit message:

fix some typos
Fix typos. Add crazy stories.

WhatToKnow-FirstSemester.md, after:

# What is This:
This gives some stuff that I wish I knew before starting this program.  

# Pre-Course Delusions
 - I will have time on the weekends for friends/family/pets.  I went into this program thinking that I could manage the asynchronous material, homework and reading on weeknights when I wasn't in class.  Yes, you will need to dedicate some hours on non-class nights but you will also need to block time on weekends.  Most of the homework assignments in statistics are due in 72 hours.  In addition, extra tutoring and other sessions are frequently held on Saturdays or Sundays.
 - I can rely on course recordings to review information that I missed in class.  Recordings are available but fast-forwarding or pausing and restarting is cumbersome.  Playback works best without pausing or jumping around so plan to rewatch the whole session if you need to touch up on a topic addressed in class.  Alternatively, you can try to record courses on your own.  This takes some practice since the audio is not integrated with the web session.
 - The statistics course I took in undergrad is enough of an intro for me.  I should be fine.  NO!  The stats class you took 10 years ago is not enough.  Go through the points listed below to get more experience.
 - I work with databases all the time, that class should be easy.  NO! Having real-life experience with databases is sometimes a detriment when discussing theories in this class.  But yes, between the two, this course is much easier.

# Statistics
Statistics is the "hard" course unless you come from a background in it. It will take some time to learn it, so the more you can do to get comfortable with it ahead of time, the better.  That is, if you're familar with terminology, notation and concepts, even if you're not a master of them, it will make it easier.

For the first month, I'd estimate I did at least 20 hours a week on this class.  Knowing some of the concepts ahead of time would have cut down on it quite a bit.

Here's some suggestions to get going faster
- Khan Academy has a whole series of videos on probability, statistics.  
    * Go through them to get comfortable with terms like sigma, alpha, confidence, etc.
    * Go through the inferential statistics series multiple times. There are a lot of concepts in this that will be 
      repeated in class, and it will go into much more depth.
    * I'd guess spending 20-30 hours going though this stuff ahead of time will pay off a lot. 
- Professor Leonard youtube videos.  This professor videoed an entire semester of introduction to statistics.
  His videos are good if you need an introduction or refresher.  However, it's a full semester, so it takes a lot of time. 
- There are other youtube videos on doing statistics. Find someone you like, and watch their stuff.
- If you prefer to sit down with a text book and read it from cover to cover, try http://onlinestatbook.com/.  This helped me immensely with getting some basic concepts down.

### SAS
You'll want to install a local copy of SAS.  The first two courses in statistics use this, and R comes later.
The official documents say it takes 4-6 hours.  In reality, it took a lot longer.  (12ish hours.)  The better network connection you have, the faster it will go.  Use a hardwire, not wireless if possible.

A number of people reported using SAS University edition, and liking it a lot better. The install is a lot smaller, only about a 1/2 hours.

People on Mac's have been having issues and have to use the citrix version. I don't know what their work-around have been besides installing on a virtual machine.


# Databases and Programming
- Find an intro to Python course online or work through some tutorials on how to do things like:
    * reading input
    * dictionaries and lists
    * connecting to a database
- In class, you can use version 2.7 or 3. Most the stuff we looked at was version 2.7.


# Other Stuff
- The biggest help for me this quarter has been connecting with classmates and collaborating on work.  It's hard, but don't be shy. Reach out to others in your classes, and start talking to them.
- We created a Google Hangout that has an on-going discussion about upcoming assignments (and some social stuff too). Its extremely helpful, if nothing else just to have everyone else to ask "when's this due again?".
- Be part of the community and discussions.
- Try to connect with people in different sections. Some weeks, one section may get further in a lecture than other weeks, so it'd good to have someone else to compare to that has a slightly different perspective.
- SMU uses Office365 for Business, so you'll get a OneDrive folder (as well as licenses for the Office suite). This, dropbox, googledrive...will be helpful to share with everyone.
- Get your equipment and materials ready BEFORE the first class.  Go ahead and upgrade that laptop now.  Install SAS per the instructions provided.  Get that extra monitor you were thinking about.  Get your books at least 2 weeks before the first session.  You will have assignments and async material that are due PRIOR to your first stats class.
- Go to 2ds and poke around.  It's worth it to be familiar with the delivery mechanism that you will be using.  Practice using the mobile version - there are differences

## Crazy stories from the front line
Everyone says "oh, that won't happen to me" and "I'm prepared for anything".  So, here are some things that came up during the quarter from various people in our cohort, all unexpected:
- Emergency room visits for the kids or self
- Tree falling on house
- Roof leaks (different house than tree)
- computer crashes
- kid's wake up screaming from nightmares in the middle of class
